#summary A highly recommended set of steps to follow to enlist in the project.
#labels Featured,Enlistment

= Introduction =

This guide details a set of steps you can take to enlist in the project. It is highly recommended that you follow these steps to get up and running quickly, but you are *not required* to do so.

*If this DOES NOT get you up and running, post a comment so that the issue can be dealt with and this wiki page updated!*

= Local Files =

== Location ==

Choose a directory on your local system to use for holding the source code and compiled binaries. These are some recommended ones based on your OS:

  * On Windows XP: {{{C:\Code\Imperial\}}}
  * On Windows Vista: {{{C:\Users\{USERNAME}\Code\Imperial}}}
  * On Windows 7: {{{C:\Users\{USERNAME}\Code\Imperial}}}

If you wish to use something else, the directory should have a path with the following characteristics:

  * Short
  * Contain no spaces
  * Local to your user account

== Structure ==

We'll call whatever directory you choose {{{PROJROOT}}}. Add a folder inside of {{{PROJROOT}}} called {{{imperialgame}}}.

You will have the following directory structure:

{{{
PROJROOT
PROJROOT\imperialgame
}}}

Think of {{{PROJROOT}}} as the directory that will control your development environment and contain any and all projects related to Imperial (hence titled "Imperial"). {{{imperialgame}}} is a directory for our one and only project, a game implementation of Imperial. The goal of this project is to have some executable called imperialgame.exe (or whatever) and everything in this directory will go into making that single exe. (Of course, eventually the exe file itself will be just one file in this entire directory.)

= Source Control =

== Getting It ==

As we're using Google Code, the source control system we're using is Subversion (a.k.a. "SVN" or "svn"). You can make your life easy by downloading and installing a Windows shell extension that lets you manage all interactions with SVN via Windows Explorer.

You'll need to restart your computer to integrate the shell extensions. Do so as soon as possible as you'll need to start using those extensions in the following step.

Download: http://tortoisesvn.net/downloads (Make sure you select the right version: 32- or 64-bit!)

== Using It ==

Navigate to {{{PROJROOT\imperialgame}}}. This directory is so named because it corresponds directly with the Google Code source path.

Take a look at http://code.google.com/p/imperialgame/source/checkout to see the checkout process.

To acquire the source for the first time, you'll need to do a checkout of the current repository. Navigate to {{{PROJROOT}}} and right-click on {{{imperialgame}}}. Locate the TortoiseSVN menu listing and hover to expose the Checkout option in a submenu. Click to bring up the Checkout dialog.

Within the Checkout dialog there are two important fields; ensure that they are filled in correctly:

  * URL of repository: https://imperialgame.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/
  * Export directory: {{{PROJROOT}}}\imperialgame

Ensure that the checkout is *fully recursive* and that you're using the *HEAD revision* before clicking OK to perform the checkout.

During the checkout, you'll need to enter your *Google Code username* and an *auto-generated password* that can be found by clicking on a link on the above-listed checkout page.

= Development Environment =

== Getting It ==

Use Visual C# 2008 Express Edition for development. You'll get some nice features like IntelliSense as well as consistency with the core build process.

Download: http://www.microsoft.com/express/vcsharp/

== Using It ==

Assuming you were able to checkout the files OK, within {{{PROJROOT}}}, you will have the following directory structure:

{{{
PROJROOT
PROJROOT\imperialgame
PROJROOT\imperialgame\{source files}.cs
PROJROOT\imperialgame\Imperial.csproj
}}}

*Imperial.csproj* is a file specific to the project. If you open it up, you'll see it contains a bunch of information related to the build process: which files to compile, where to dump the executables, and the path to find StyleCop. It's my hope that we'll be able to source control this file so that you can checkout the entire project and have something that you can open, build, and run. This file will get automatically updated as you manipulate things in Visual Studio, so if you ever create or delete a file, make sure you check it in.

(*Imperial.csproj.user* is a relatively unimportant file that contains user settings.)

*{source files}* describes all of the source files. In the future, this may actually be a collection of directories and subdirectories containing source files, but for now it's just a collection of files.

If you double-click on Imperial.csproj, it should launch Visual Studio. Otherwise, open up Visual Studio and open the file. There may be some message warning you; here's how to handle these cases:

  * Warning about converting between versions of Visual Studio. I'm currently on VS 2010 Beta. If this warning pops up, it'll mean that I can't really do this and have someone else working on the project in 2008 Express. If this does happen, see if it'll convert the file to your version for you. It may be fine, but keep an eye out that StyleCop runs when you get to that step below.
  * Warning about trusting imported build steps (or something like that). This warning comes up because of the added line to run StyleCop as part of the build process. Just say OK and you should be good to go.

Assuming the csproj file opens correctly, you should be able to see:

{{{
Solution 'Imperial' (1 project)
- Imperial
  + References
  {
  {
  { source files here
  {
  {
}}}

Select the Build menu in the top toolbar and select Build Solution. It may ask you to save a solution file. If so, save the sln file in {{{PROJROOT}}} next to the {{{imperialgame}}} directory.

Ensure that there are not build errors and that the project build successfully. You may notice a few StyleCop warnings. By default, I think it displays build results from the console window, but there's another tab for Error List that displays things a bit more nicely.

If the build was successful, click the green arrow the run the debug executable. You can exit by closing the console window that pops up.

In summary, here's a view of your directories after you've built for the first time.

{{{
PROJROOT
PROJROOT\imperialgame
PROJROOT\imperialgame\bin
PROJROOT\imperialgame\obj
PROJROOT\imperialgame\{source files}
PROJROOT\imperialgame\Imperial.csproj
PROJROOT\imperialgame\Imperial.csproj.user
PROJROOT\Imperial.sln
}}}

*Imperial.sln* is a Visual Studio (VS) file that you can use to open up the project within VS. A solution can actually contain many projects, but we'll just have one. (So technically, {{{PROJROOT}}} should be {{{SOLUTIONROOT}}} but whatever...)

The *bin* directory contains the executables generated by the build process.

The *obj* directory contains intermediate files from the build process. Files in this directory can be helpful in performing an incremental rather than full build.

The current set of files that is source-controlled is {source files} and Imperial.csproj

= StyleCop =

We'll be using StyleCop as a gatekeeper for good coding style and comments. It's currently implemented as an added step in the build process. If there are any things it wants you to change they will appear as warnings. *Please address all StyleCop issues prior to commit!*

You can get the MSI (installer file) at the link below as well as download the documentation for the style rules. The documentation is helpful because it will explain errors in more detail than the build warning and propose fixes. Fixing StyleCop violations should be very mechanical.

Download: http://code.msdn.microsoft.com/sourceanalysis/Release/ProjectReleases.aspx?ReleaseId=1425

= Conclusion =

And that's it! You've gotten the source and built successfully. Everything else you need to know will be in a process-oriented article like BuildProcess or SVNProcess.